The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Review, Vol. I, No. 2 (1911), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: The Review, Vol. I, No. 2 (1911)

Author: Various

Release Date: December 1, 2017 [EBook #56099]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE REVIEW, VOL. I, NO. 2 (1911) ***




Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Barry Abrahamsen and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)









                               The Review




------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    VOLUME I, No. 2. FEBRUARY, 1911

                               THE REVIEW

                 A MONTHLY PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED BY THE
                 =NATIONAL PRISONERS’ AID ASSOCIATION=

                AT 135 EAST 15th STREET, NEW YORK CITY.

       ---------------------------------------------------------

              TEN CENTS A COPY. SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR

       ---------------------------------------------------------

  E. F. Waite, President.
  F. Emory Lyon, Vice President.
  O. F. Lewis, Secretary and Editor Review.

  E. A. Fredenhagen,  Chairman Ex. Committee.
  Charles Parsons, Member Ex. Committee.
  A. H. Votaw,  Member Ex. Committee.

  G. E. Cornwall, Member Ex. Committee
  Albert Steelman,  Member Ex. Committee

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              LEGISLATION


These are the months that count. This issue of the REVIEW brings notice
of many bills introduced in various states for the betterment of prison
conditions and for the welfare of the prisoner. Let prisoners’ aid
societies show during these next few months that they can work for
legislation as well as talk, co-operate with other organizations as well
as criticize, get results as well as get out annual reports. Let us not
be discouraged because it may often be said that “there is no hope of
getting a bill like that through this year.” Passing a bill is only one
of the steps in the process of educating public sentiment up to the
acceptance of a new idea. Education must begin somewhere and sometime.
So let us be active in advocating and introducing good legislation, even
though we may not get all we want in any one year.

                               ----------

               =MESSAGE OF THE PRISONERS’ AID SOCIETIES=

We have one of the most important messages in the field of practical
philanthropy. Americans, particularly in the eastern states, are loth to
wear their hearts upon their sleeves. So we hesitate sometimes perhaps,
to emphasize the message we have. Yet—life is short, and the field is
wide. Prisons are still far from solving the problems of the deprivation
of liberty, punishment, the protection of society, the rehabilitation of
the criminal, and the reduction of crimes.

Therefore, let us not forget the missionary nature of the prisoners’ aid
society. But, in spreading far and wide the facts regarding the prisoner
and the duty of society in his behalf, let us not fall into the error of
being fanatical because our field is one of magnitude. Accepting the
proposition that the great public wants definite and impressive
information, not simply emotional enthusiasm or tirade, let us present
honestly and vigorously conditions as they are, and also make
constructive suggestions as to their possible betterment, never
forgetting the many difficulties that prison administrators are forced
to meet which are not of their own making.

                               ----------

                              =THE REVIEW=

This number of the REVIEW begins to illustrate the purpose of the
editors. This periodical should be a live news sheet of events and
discussions in the prison and prisoners’ aid field. So we publish this
month a noteworthy article by an Iowa warden with progressive ideas; we
print also Mr. Whitin’s conclusion about the use of prisoners in road
making and about the administrative problems raised by their use.

Several prisoners’ aid societies are described by their own
representatives. This journal’s first purpose is to be a bond of union
between these societies. Then follow a number of pages of notes on
events in the prison field. We hope the Review deserves the co-operation
of all engaged in the prison field. Paraphrasing the Old Farmer’s
Almanac: “Now is the time to subscribe!”

                         THE MAN GOING OUT.[1]

=By WARDEN J. C. SANDERS, Ft. Madison, Iowa.=

Footnote 1:

  Reprinted from “Man for Man,” annual report for 1911 of Central Howard
  Association.

I do not feel enough can ever be said to eternally damn, as they should
be, the vicious, barbarous, degenerating method, which until within
comparatively recent years, robbed penology of the right to be classed
as a science and converted our prisons and penitentiaries into forcing
beds for the germinating and spreading of folly, vice and crime.
Society, however, has paid the price for the mistaken views it endorsed,
and as the new era is fast sweeping away the old, I have elected to deal
with the man produced by it. And mark you, I say MAN, for in Iowa we are
trying to make men in our prisons today, not ex-convicts. I want to
feel, and I am going to feel, when the day of liberation comes, and a
man stands in my office prepared to re-enter the world, that society is
about to receive back in the economic value of the man returned, the
principal and interest on all it has cost to produce him. But to come at
once to my subject, the “MAN GOING OUT.”

If there is one thing a man needs most at such a time it is
self-confidence. Its absence marks the weakling and is almost a sure
precursor of his certain return to old habits of thought with their
accompanying results. Self-confidence rests upon a self-recognition of
ability, and this in turn is the outgrowth of experience which has been
productive of pre-designed results. If in his prison experience he has
been taught that results—all results—come through intelligent,
systematic application and has learned to concentrate his efforts and
apply himself and thus to realize them, he would be a strange anomaly if
he lacked confidence in himself. This is education expressed in its
highest term, acquired under that master preceptor—experience. To the
man imbued with this spirit, society’s attitude toward him he feels is
immaterial, not that he vicariously courts its hostility, but he is
possessed of the sublime assurance that his character-force will carry
him through. Accompanying this attitude and as vital to it for him as
the sunshine to the rose, is to make of the past a dead and, so far as
is possible, a forgotten existence. This I know is contrary to the
theory of the value of its lessons, but the man who, like Sinbad,
burdens himself with “an old man of the sea,” and thus accepts a
self-imposed handicap, possesses but little of the initiative in his
character.

The new going out, whom I insist upon holding in view, ought to be a new
spirit incarnate in a rebuilt body, born over a second time into a new
life, has nothing in common with the deal self buried in the past. If he
is not such, he ought not to be released. Why then embalm it in memory
and forever travel in the company of a mummy! The funeral urn never
pampered to anything but a sickly, morbid sentiment. A constant
reviewing of failure is no inspiration to succeed. The most sanguine
temperament falls a helpless victim before ravishing regret, and the man
or woman, ex-prisoner, allowed to re-enter society unfortified by the
philosophical truth that the past must have culminated in the present to
make possible a happier, better, greater future, has been badly
instructed in the ways of Providence—ever a witness to the wisdom and
mercy that rejoiceth more over the lost sheep that is found than over
the “Ninety and Nine.”

Next to self-confidence and a stoical attitude toward the past, the
important thing to a man going out is “purpose.” I do not mean merely
purpose to do right—that, of course, will be a conceded essential. What
I do mean is a definite, well considered and reasonable aim—something
higher and beyond. God alone knows how many men inspired with the best
of intentions have gone forth from our prisons and penitentiaries within
the past year, who have failed, are failing, or will fail, simply
because they have been led into attempting commercial impossibilities!
The responsibility for these failure will rest less on the men
themselves than upon us. If there is one duty above all others we owe to
society, to the men and to ourselves, it is to see that the man going
out has not lost his job—but goes out to go into one. In a large measure
this may be accomplished by reconciling the man to the necessity of
filling any position which will support him until he can catch his
balance and soar up to something higher. Where he is employed the
prejudice said to exist against ex-prisoners is very much a popular
error. I have observed that most business men, for purely selfish
reasons, if for none higher, recognize and are willing to pay for
ability, nor are they given to looking for or picking flaws in a man’s
past record.

So far I have spoken only of the three character-traits I regard as
indispensable to the present and future of the man going
out—self-confidence, emancipation from the past, and purpose. It is our
duty as missionaries in the field of prison philanthrophy to devote our
uttermost efforts to secure them to him. But character-traits great and
invaluable as they are and primarily of first importance in the work we
have assumed, should be supplemented in a material way. No ex-prisoner
should be turned loose into society unprovided with sufficient funds to
maintain him suitably—not in luxury—if you please, but comfortably, for
at least thirty days. And to be explicit and not misunderstood as
meaning to convert penal institutions into finishing schools turning out
embryonic millionaires at the expense of the tax-payers—I will say that
no sum less than $50.00 is sufficient for such a purpose. And you, dear
reader, with your practical experience, will acknowledge that this sum
is not an extravagant estimate. If there is one thing the ex-prisoner
should be spared during the period immediately following release it is a
financial stringency. I appreciate, as do we all, the noble efforts
being made by Mrs. Booth, the Central Howard Association, and kindred
organizations, and I am fully aware of the miraculous results being
achieved by them every day. And while I am grateful to them, and those
who so liberally support and second them, I cannot help feeling
chagrined at the thought that the great commonwealths of this country
should leave a duty so palpably belonging to them to be discharged by
philanthropic associations. I believe nothing is productive of greater
practical good than to secure a prisoners’ compensation law in each
state where one is not in operation at present. And, furthermore, I am
persuaded that any such general law which received the indorsement of
the public would meet with sufficient popular approval to assure its
legislative passage in any state where it is introduced. There are
those, I have been made aware, who are skeptical as to the policy of
providing ex-prisoners with more money than is sufficient to meet
immediate requirements. They argue that the pressure of necessity will
have a stimulating effect, that the man determined to lead an honest
life will, driven by it, go to work at once. But I question the logic of
this reasoning. For I cannot conceive of abject poverty under such
circumstances as other than demoralizing in its moral effects. And I am
sure every man works more cheerfully—more contentedly and more
effectively with a ten or a twenty dollar bill in his pocket than when
he feels himself to be absolutely insolvent.

And now permit me to briefly suggest what I regard as an important,
indispensable, and in time to be, universally adopted prison innovation,
directly affecting the man going out and which can be productive of only
beneficial results.

I believe we do the man going out an injury when we permit the transit
from prison regime to freedom to be marked simply by the opening and
shutting of a gate. It seems to me that this could be largely obviated
if what might be termed a “transit squad” was organized, and to which
all first offenders would be advanced two weeks prior to discharge. Here
the discipline should be relaxed and the daily experiences of the men
brought into close touch with those of the outside world. We recognize
the utility of such a step already—for we all know how prevalent the
custom is of giving near discharge men outside work.

In connection with the transit squad I would advocate complete
segregation from the rest of the prison—providing a dormitory ward
properly furnished, and connected with its own dining room, where a
special dietary should be served. I should advocate even going further
than this and permit the wearing of the citizen’s clothing furnished by
the state. In this direction the ice has already been broken, for it is
a general custom to allow prisoners to draw their outgoing shoes and
wear them several weeks before being discharged. During this period I
believe it would be wise to permit the men to purchase such personal
effects as they will need later—additions to their wardrobe and toilet
articles—and in selecting them I should be in favor of taking the men on
shopping expeditions—not in prison garb. We are all familiar with the
temptations besetting men going out—and their attraction would be
greatly lessened by a less precipitous exit from prison and entrance
into society than that now in vogue. Too often the last thing a man gets
on leaving prison is the “ice-eye” of a turnkey, immune to any sentiment
other than that arising from the expectation that his coming back is
only a question of time.

I have often wondered whether we fully realize that in the experience of
every man there is always the “middle man.” By the “middle man” I mean
the character taken after its evolution from the innocent years of early
life and out of which the last state of the man will evolve. The man
when received at a penal institution is invariably the “middle man.” If
we realize this, and in connection therewith that character remains
plastic, despite the old adage that “you can’t teach an old dog new
tricks,” and we conscientiously endeavor to secure the adoption of
regulations designed with the idea in view that we are dealing with
human beings, the “man going out” is an entirely new fellow from the man
we received—while our prisons will become vast catacombs, the eternal
resting place for the shade of the “middle man.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                   MAKING ROADS THROUGH PRISON LABOR

 =Dr. E. Stagg Whitin, General Secretary, National Committee on Prison
                                Labor.=

(By Dr. E. Stagg Whitin, General Secretary, National Committee on Prison
Labor).

“Open up your jails, penitentiaries and prisons!” cry the good roads
associations throughout the country—“a solution is at hand for your most
difficult problem. Bad men on bad roads make good roads, while good
roads make good men.”

“Good roads and good men” has become a slogan and no topic of prison
news today is more widely discussed in the press from coast to coast
than this—the employment of convicts in public road building.

Convict road making is a pressing question before the present sessions
of legislatures, county supervisors and boards of control. Members are
hesitating as to what answer to make and what arguments pro or con to
bring forth. The literature on the subject is abundant, but in the
suggestions there is little that is new. That thirty-three states had
laws on their statute books in 1905 permitting the employment of
convicts on state and county roads shows that a solution of the problem
does not necessarily lie in legislation but in its administration. The
various forms which these laws take demonstrate the fact that there is
as yet no satisfactory or uniform law. The many different experiments
going on today appear to have grown out of local needs and conditions
rather than out of any generally accepted theory of what is right from
the standpoint of penology. To solve satisfactorily the difficult
problem involved, or even to suggest its proper solution, would require
long research and experimentation, but perhaps it may be timely to point
out some of the difficulties which must be encountered wherever convict
road making is tried.

The theory that convict labor is a proper source of exploitation either
by a lessee through his peonage, a contractor through his cheap
contract, or a co-ordinate department of a state government through its
subtle bookkeeping, is one that is untenable from any point of view.
Road making is a legitimate use of state funds and is of practical
benefit to all citizens by reducing the cost of transportation of the
products of the farms to the great markets; therefore anything that will
expedite the building of good roads is for the common welfare. It is on
this basis that it is urged that the labor of convicts be used for this
purpose. The state has a right to its use and under certain conditions
it would greatly reduce the cost of production and tend to a more rapid
development of good roads projects.

Still, we are face to face with a condition whereby the state directs
its prison department to allow its highway department to have the labor
of the convicts at little or no cost to the highway department and
consequently at a figure much below that at which free labor might be
induced to seek employment in road building. The claim that free labor
cannot be had at any wage for work on roads in certain communities is
generally advanced as a justification for this, but the large employment
agencies of the country as well as the student of economics will soon
show conclusively that the difficulty lies not in securing labor at any
price, but in reluctance to give an adequate wage which will induce
labor to come into the work.

The value of the convict’s labor on the roads is the same as the value
of his labor in the prison factory—the wage at which free labor can be
secured to perform the same work. Shall the prison department turn over
gratis its convicts to the highway department—this is the question. If
it does, it is giving to the highway department exactly that amount of
money for which the highway department could hire free labor. It makes
little difference to the taxpayers which he is taxed to maintain,
prisons or roads. Prisons are deemed a necessity and the community is
afraid to get along without them. Bad roads are a habit and the
community is accustomed to get along with them. But with a single tax
maintaining prisons and developing highways, which community could
hesitate?

A much more legitimate argument, but one less often advanced, is the
healthful, wholesome environment thrown around the convict while at work
in road building. The experience of the men who developed the road work
in Colorado shows that this is an advantageous way of employing
able-bodied convicts—of transforming the sallow ghost-like prisoner,
fresh from the prison pen, into a rosy, happy specimen of humanity.
Under God’s own sky, with the fresh air of heaven, free from shackles
and living on his honor with few guards to do more than supervise, the
prisoner is surrounded by the best environment and governed under a
method which is sane. While it remains to be proved how long this method
will be a success and whether the experience of Colorado can be
duplicated both north and south, the work at Kalamazoo, Mich., at
Richmond, Va., and other places tends to raise our hope. These practical
arguments should have weight.

A movement equally important with that of good roads is passing over the
country. Efficiency is demanded in the management of prisons, with a
wage for the convict which will benefit those dependent on him. To build
up an efficient organization of prison industries is a task of no mean
magnitude on an inadequate salary and hampered by red-tape of
officialdom and incompetency of subordinates. The man at the head of
prison departments needs sympathetic encouragement. To place upon him
the burden of securing large appropriations for maintenance of his
institution while the labor of his charges is handed over to others for
exploitation is destructive of all ambition for the attainment of
efficiency.

So it is that the movements of the day tend to clash and we are left
with a dilemma. Is there a demand on the part of the highway and road
people which is legitimate, which will open this seemingly large
opportunity for the convict and still not offer it on a basis of
exploitation? This conflict is full of interest to the student of the
subject.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      IN THE PRISONERS’ AID FIELD

                               ----------

=THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY=

Early in the year 1776 a society was organized by some benevolent
citizens of Philadelphia under the name “The Philadelphia Society for
Assisting Distressed Prisoners.” After a career of nineteen months the
society was dissolved on account of difficulties arising during the War
for Independence.

In 1787 philanthropic citizens constituted themselves “The Philadelphia
Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons.” From that time
until the present this society has been actively engaged in securing
measures to improve the conditions of prisons, and also in earnest
endeavors to reform criminals, and so far as known it is the oldest
prison society in continued existence in the world. The name of the
society was legally changed in 1886 to “The Pennsylvania Prison
Society.”

The present president, Joshua L. Baily, whose membership dates from
1851, has been connected with the society longer than any other living
member.

In the first year of the existence of the society about 150 gentlemen of
Philadelphia were connected with the organization. Their object was to
discover “such degree and modes of punishment” as might restore our
“fellow-creatures to virtue and happiness.”

An annuity of the value of about $70, the donation of John Dickinson,
was the only permanent revenue of the new society.

In 1788, the society addressed the following letter to John Howard, the
great apostle in the work of ameliorating the condition of prisons: “The
Society heartily concurs with the friends of humanity in Europe in
expressing their obligation to you for having rendered the miserable
tenants of prisons the objects of more general attention and compassion,
and for having pointed out some of the means not only of alleviating
their miseries, but of preventing those crimes and misfortunes which are
the cause of them.” A year or two later John Howard left on record an
expression of appreciation of the work of the Philadelphia Society. The
following sentiment was found among his papers: “Should the plan take
place during my life of establishing a permanent charity under some such
title as that at Philadelphia, viz: ‘a society for alleviating the
miseries of public prisons,’ I would most readily stand at the bottom of
a page for five hundred pounds.”

The organizers of the society had a tremendous task before them, and
they went at their work with energetic diligence. Very little effort had
ever been made to carry out William Penn’s injunction that “all prisons
should be considered workhouses for the employment of criminals and of
the idle and vicious.” There was an ill-constructed prison at the corner
of High and Third Streets with subterranean dungeons for those under
sentence of death. At least half a dozen crimes were punishable by
death. “In one common herd were kept by day and night prisoners of all
ages, colors and sexes. There was no separation of the most flagrant
felon from the prisoner held on suspicion for some trifling misdemeanor.
There was no separation of the fraudulent swindler from the unfortunate,
and often estimable, debtor.”

The society early resolved that two leading elements of the desired
reformation were to find employment for the inmates and to interdict the
use of intoxicants. They also insisted that there must be a segregation,
not only of the sexes, but also that there must be an individual
separation in order that the penal institutions should not become
“schools for crime.”

From the first the society has advocated separate confinement and
individual treatment, but has not stood for absolutely solitary
imprisonment. There is no objection to work being done in groups,
provided the prisoners are under direct supervision of the proper
officials. Visits from the officers, from ministers, from all properly
concerned persons, have been encouraged. Visitations by members of the
Prison Society began under peculiar difficulties, as it is on record
that the keeper, with loaded cannon, for the purpose of maintaining
order, allowed the prisoners to assemble to hear the preaching of the
gospel, but the beneficial effect of the visits were soon officially
recognized, and have been maintained with great regularity to the
present day, the Acting Committee in 1909 having reported 10,951 visits
to prisoners. In the year 1829, when the Eastern Penitentiary, whose
plan and management at that time represented the most advanced ideas in
prison construction and discipline was built, the members of the Acting
Committee of the Society were, by enactment of the State Legislature,
constituted “Official Visitors” of prisons.

In 1794 the society succeeded in securing the abolition of the exaction
of fees by the jailers as a condition of release, and a competent salary
was authorized to be paid to the prison officials. About the same time
it was decreed that capital punishment should be inflicted only for the
crime of murder. Barbarous methods of punishment, such as the pillory,
branding with hot irons, the whipping post, were soon dispensed with as
reformatory measures.

In 1844 the society issued the first number of “The Journal of Prison
Discipline and Philanthropy.” At first this periodical was published
quarterly, but for many years it has been an annual. In the columns of
this Journal every phase of prison reform, every measure affecting the
management of prisons, every act of penal legislation for nearly seventy
years, has received attention.

For about fifty years a special agent has been employed who devotes his
time to sympathetic care of prisoners from the time they arrive until
they have received their discharge. Legal aid is found for those whose
cases seem to require it, and where there are mitigating circumstances
the charges are often withdrawn and so the accused is restored where
often his services are needed. Attention is given to their physical
needs at the time of their discharge and effort is made to provide them
with employment.

The Commutation Act, whereby the sentence of prisoners could be
relatively shortened for good behavior, was first passed in 1861, for
the passage of which act the members of the society had worked for
years. In recent years some members of the society have made a thorough
study of methods of dealing with criminals in the various states of the
Union, and in connection with other interested parties have been
instrumental in securing the passage of a law in 1909, which provides
for probation for adult offenders, and also for parole for certain
classes of offenders. These provisions had for many years applied to
juvenile criminals, but before 1909 had no reference to the sentence on
adults. The State of Pennsylvania has been quite cautious in adopting
some principles of what may be called “The New Penology,” and it is too
early at the present time to make any report on the effect in
Pennsylvania of this recent legislation. The society is giving close and
sympathetic attention to the practical enforcement of these regulations
with the hope that the beneficial effects, reported elsewhere, may here
be observed, and that the errors of this system, which have been noted
rather conspicuously in the press, may be reduced to a minimum in our
State.—_From an article by Albert H. Votaw, secretary of the
Pennsylvania Prison Society, in supplement to No. 49 of The Journal of
Prison Discipline and Philanthropy._

                               ----------

The following report has been made by Frederick J. Pooley, general agent
of the Pennsylvania Prison Society, concerning the recent activities of
the general agent: At the close of the year, December 31, 1908, there
were 1,480 prisoners confined within the walls of the Eastern
Penitentiary. At the close of the year, December 31, 1909, there were
1,527, an increase of 47. Of this number 30 are life prisoners. There
are 38 female prisoners. During the year 1909 there were 520 prisoners
discharged. Of this number 405 were furnished with suits or parts of
clothing and with tools, lodging, etc., by the Pennsylvania Prison
Society through their general agent, and in addition to this part of the
work many were taken to the early morning trains and conducted safely
out of the city and beyond the reach of evil companions who often wait
for the discharged prisoners at the prison gate for the purpose of
leading them back to a life of crime. In addition to the work at the
Eastern Penitentiary the general agent has a large field of work at
Moyamensing and Holmesburg.

I believe the lesson of temperance that has been taught to the younger
generation is commencing to bear fruit, and I look for fewer commitments
for drunkenness in the future than in the past. More than 500 discharged
prisoners from the County Prison were assisted with railroad tickets,
board, lodging, room rent, tools, etc.

                               ----------

                 =NEW YORK PRISON ASSOCIATION IN 1910=

The New York Tribune on January 23rd stated: The Prison Association of
New York during 1910 found work for 362 released prisoners. At the
annual meeting held last Thursday O. F. Lewis, general secretary,
reported that 1,237 former prisoners had been in charge of the parole
bureau during the year, and that the men and women on probation to the
association from the Court of General Sessions would bring the total
number of persons helped to 1,700.

Managers of the prisons and reformatories know the Prison Association
will take at any time as many men on parole as may be assigned to the
association. These men must report once a month, and they are also
visited by the parole staff at their work and at their homes.

All prisoners eligible for parole must obtain an offer of employment, so
their purpose in writing to the association is obvious.

The general secretary pointed out that during the year seventy-six men
had been paroled from the state prisons to the association. It was
necessary to return to state prison only four men, and the others were
all doing well.

Ten thousand calls a year were made at the office of the Prison
Association, most of them from men who had “done time.” The
association’s staff made over 3,600 visits in 1910 in behalf of men on
parole and on probation, and gave nearly 3,500 meals and 1,968 lodgings.
The association spent $3,200 in cash relief, including lodgings and
meals. Many friends of the association gave clothing, magazines and
books, and 344 garments were received by needy prisoners during the
year.

Smith Ely contributed $27,500 to the endowment fund, and an equivalent
amount was raised by the association last year, but the income will not
be available for six months, and an appeal was made for financial help
because of greatly increased activity.

The work for dependent families of prisoners was placed in charge of a
special committee, with the exclusive service of one visitor. The
problem of mental defectiveness among prisoners received much attention
from the association, and a special committee on defective delinquents
was appointed at the last meeting, which comprised twenty-five
specialists in study and care of delinquents. A closely affiliated body
of forty business and professional men, calling themselves the Barrows
League, was organized to assist the Prison Association through work for
the welfare of persons released from prisons or reformatory
institutions.

A comprehensive study of the lives of seven hundred present and former
inmates of Elmira Reformatory was conducted by the association during
1910, through the financial support of the Sage Foundation. It was
expected that this study would be published this year.

                               ----------

       =THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR AIDING DISCHARGED CONVICTS=

In 1846 the Boston Society for Aiding Discharged Convicts was organized
for the purpose which its name indicates. At that time there were 276
prisoners confined in the state prison, while on Jan. 1, 1911, there
were 876 serving sentences there.

In 1867 the organization was incorporated, and the name changed to the
Massachusetts Society for Aiding Discharged Convicts. Upon the formation
of the society the state agent for discharged convicts was employed for
its work, which was to be carried on along the same lines as that
contemplated by the state.

The advantages to the society from its co-operation with the state in
this work are many. Perhaps the greatest is the fact that by this
arrangement the records of all the commitments and discharges to and
from all the prisons of the commonwealth, which are in the office of the
prison commissioners, are open to the inspection of the agent at all
times. Here the story of an applicant for aid can be verified or
disproved immediately. In addition to the criminal records are many
others, going more fully into the personal history and home conditions
of those who have been in prison; all of this information is useful and
necessary in dealing with the ex-prisoner. The saving in administration
expenses, rent, and other items, leaves more funds available for the
prime object of the society, i.e., help to the prisoner.

During the year ending Nov. 30, 1910, this society has helped four
hundred and sixty-three men, most of whom had served terms in the jails,
houses of correction, and on the state farm. The assistance rendered has
been generally in the form of transportation, meals and lodgings, room
rent, clothing, tools, taking property from pawn shops, medicines,
spectacles, etc. There has been expended during the year about $1,700.

Notwithstanding the increase of population in Massachusetts there were
213 fewer prisoners on Oct. 1, 1910 than on the same date in 1909.

                               ----------

       =THE MINNESOTA DIVISION OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE FRIENDLESS=

The Minnesota Division of the Society for the Friendless is a division
of the National Society of the same name. It has been doing active work
in the state of Minnesota since January 1st, 1909, when Rev. James
Parsons came to the state as superintendent, under appointment of the
national society. The work was carried forward for the first fifteen
months under the direction of the national society. On April 8th, 1910,
the Minnesota Division was formally organized.

Its special motto is “education for the prevention of crime, and help
for the prisoner.” It aims to arouse a more enlightened and humane
sentiment toward the treatment of discharged prisoners, awaken a new
interest in the improvement of laws, and show the forces that are at
work to make criminals. Along relief lines it aims to do everything
possible for the men while in prison, to find employment for them when
they are discharged or paroled, and in cases where employment cannot be
secured for them at once to furnish them with a temporary lodging place.
It also gives such aftercare as each case seems to need.

During the year 1910 one hundred and six jail visits were made, over 600
prisoners were interviewed, 45 persons were helped to work, and 75 were
assisted in other ways. The machinery of the organization has been
gotten into such working order that the society is in a position to
handle a larger work. During the next year the organization hopes to aid
in securing the passages of a number of beneficial laws, among them
being one providing for an up-to-date indeterminate sentence.

During 1910 the following work has been done, among other activities of
the society: Church addresses, 106; persons reached in churches, 16,155;
school addresses, 56; persons reached in school audiences, 8,780;
miscellaneous addresses, 19; persons in these gatherings, 4,445; miles
traveled, 22,673; calls made for various purposes, 1,491; letters
written, 599: jail visits, 106; prisoners interviewed, 600; discharged
prisoners helped to work, 45; assisted in other ways, 600.

                               ----------

     =NEW JERSEY STATE CHARITIES AID AND PRISON REFORM ASSOCIATION=

The current number of the New Jersey Review of Charities and Correction
brings interesting information regarding the re-organization of the
association and the appointment of Joseph P. Byers, formerly
superintendent of the House of Refuge at Randall’s Island, New York
City, as general secretary. The program of the present year includes the
organization of county branches in all counties of New Jersey, there
being at present but seven county committees: the visitation of all the
institutions of the state by the general secretary; the regular
publication of the New Jersey Review; the development of the standing
committees, and the extension of the membership and influence of the
association. Hugh F. Fox, writing in the Review, says: “Mr. Byers has
made his mark in all of his undertakings in the past, and his practical
experience and wide knowledge qualify him peculiarly for the supervisory
and advisory duties which he has now undertaken.”

The annual report of the association’s general secretary calls attention
to the county jail problem, the opposition in New Jersey to the present
contract system of labor and the possibilities of a profitable
introduction of the state use system, the desirability of introducing
winter work into the almshouses of the state to discourage the presence
of vagrants, and the great need of a woman’s reformatory.

                               ----------

                 =COLORADO PRISON ASSOCIATION GROWING=

The Colorado State Prison association, says the Denver News, has become
during the last year an organization not only to help prisoners who have
a criminal record to get work and to reform, but to keep others from
gaining a criminal record.

Instead of sending young first offenders to jail this year some Denver
judges have tried the plan of releasing them to the Colorado Prison
association. In every case the offenders have been grateful, were helped
by friends and relatives to get work and are now living useful lives.
The idea is new to Colorado.

W. E. Collett, general secretary of the association, states in his
report for 1910, that the association helped 534 persons as against 324
the year before.

For the first time Secretary Collett received applications from men of
the professions, lawyers, physicians, and from bookkeepers and clerks
who have fallen into trouble.

The association procured employment for 355, meals for 344, lodging for
227, clothing for 105, transportation for 70 and tools, loans and
medical aid for 45. The total number of lodgings given was 1,226 and the
total number of meals, 2,882.

Nine were given courses in a Correspondence school. The cost per
prisoner to the association was $9.75.

                               ----------

                       =GEORGIA’S NEW SECRETARY=

Robert B. McCord has been recently made secretary of the Prison
Association of Georgia, with headquarters at 404 Gould building,
Atlanta. Concerning the new incumbent, the Atlanta _Georgian_ says:

“Mr. McCord is a native Georgian and has spent years in specializing on
the character of work in which he will now be engaged. After a
preliminary course at the University of Florida, he attended Yale
university, from which he graduated in 1908. After his course at Yale he
attended the University of Chicago. Mr. McCord was closely associated
with Dr. C. R. Henderson for two years in research work.

“In outlining the work of which he will have charge, Mr. McCord said:

‘The prison associations of the several states are not organized on the
same plan, or for doing the same phases of the work in every case. The
Prison Association of Georgia is not modeled after any of them, yet in
the work outlined it resembles more nearly the Prison Association of New
York.

“‘The Prison Association will investigate and attempt to throw light
upon the causes that underlie crime of the various kinds in this state.
It will collect information from officials and suggestions from men of
experience in Georgia, methods employed in other states and countries,
and it will publish these in various ways to the people of the state. It
will aid in introducing and extending methods of preventing crime and
reforming offenders. It will endeavor to organize such influence as will
secure the building and equipping of proper institutions for those
offenders who can not be dealt with more profitably and wisely by
methods of probation and parole. It will direct its efforts to securing
the proper equipment and regular inspection of jails and prisons of all
kinds. It will in time organize such aid as may enable the discharged
prisoner to establish himself again in the confidence of the people
instead his possessing that dangerous state of mind which characterizes
one who feels himself an outcast of society’.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            EVENTS IN BRIEF

=[Under this heading will appear each month numerous paragraphs of
general interest, relating to the prison field and the treatment of the
delinquent.]=

_What Can Be Done With the Drunkard?_—In many states the approach of the
legislative season has brought forth bills providing for a more rational
treatment of the drunkard. A commission appointed by Governor Warner of
Michigan to make a study of minor criminal offenses will recommend to
the legislature at the 1911 session the establishment of an inebriates’
farm where the drunkard, habitual or occasional, may work off the habit
under the influence of helpful and healthful surroundings. The
commission, all of whose members are lawyers, have found that petty
crime is increasing in Michigan at the rate of ten per cent a year,
while the population is increasing at the rate of but four per cent. The
report emphasizes that the present Michigan methods of dealing with
petty offenders are not reformatory.

In Lewiston and Auburn, Maine, citizens are establishing a refuge for
discharged prisoners who have served terms for vagrancy or intoxication.
The Auburn Reform League hopes thus to find “a place where these men can
be helped to a fresh start.”

In Massachusetts, Warren F. Spalding, the secretary of the Massachusetts
Prison Association, discussing the treatment of drunkenness before the
commission which has been investigating the increase of prisoners and
paupers in the Bay State, said recently: “Massachusetts’ system of
dealing with the question is not good. It is sending thousands of
persons to the houses of correction each year and then releasing them
after short periods without having helped them.” “A drunk,” he said,
“needs air, sunshine and outdoor work. He should not be in a cell 16 out
of the 24 hours. These cells are not free from germs. What does
Massachusetts do with her drunks? After sending each one to the House of
Correction for a number of times, he is sent to the state farm at
Bridgewater, where he receives the outdoor treatment he needed in the
first place. Massachusetts should establish from one to six institutions
where drunks and criminals through drunkenness can be given outdoor
treatment.”

It is reported that a bill is to be introduced into the Indiana
legislature providing for the sending of convicted drunkards to the
county infirmary which is reported to be able to work the men on the
farm at a cost only one-fourth of that entailed by keeping them at the
jail.

A member of the State Commission in Lunacy of New York recently stated
that 28 per cent of insanity in the state hospitals of New York is
directly traceable to inebriety or the use of alcohol.

                               ----------

_Winter and the Vagrant._—New York City has been registering at its
half-million dollar new free lodging house a record-breaking attendance
this winter of the out-of-works. On January 15th the department of
public charities lodged 982 homeless persons at the city lodging house
and an overflow of 286 were lodged on a covered dock owned by the
department. “In my fifteen years of experience,” said the superintendent
of the lodging house, “I have never seen so many men come here with
clean shirts and collars, and with neat clothes. They are men who have
been working on the railroads and on the aqueduct and are now laid off
for the winter.” The city lodging house has no work-test and the
magistrates have largely discontinued their former tendency to commit
frequent repeaters at the lodging house to the city workhouse. In the
first sixteen days of 1910 the city cared for 5,841 persons at the
lodging house; for the first sixteen days of 1911 the attendance was
13,197, an astounding increase of approximately 8,000 or more than 125
per cent.

Meanwhile cities all over the land are complaining of the swarms of
tramps and vagrants making claims, almost with the assurance of vested
rights, upon the hospitality of the towns or the individual citizens.
Minneapolis has recently attracted attention through its new city
lodging house, where free food, free bath and nightshirt are a part of
the regulations, as well as the fumigation of the guest’s clothing
during the night. The conditions under which homeless men were formerly
lodged by the police in Minneapolis were so wretched that the new
municipal lodging house has received a welcome from press and public.

One year’s work of the wayfarer’s lodge of the federation of charities
in Toledo, O., is worth notice. During 1910, 3,896 men were taken care
of, 8,465 beds being given. On an average the men stopped at the lodge
two and one-half nights, 18,773 meals being given in 1910. Paid
employment was found for 962 men, most of the positions being at manual
labor. Seventy-three per cent of the men were American born. Over
seventy per cent were in the best period of life, between twenty and
forty years of age. Nearly fifty per cent of the men were common
laborers. All the men were examined by medical students of Toledo
University, and if in need of care were referred to a dispensary or
other sources. About one man in five was found to need medical
attention. Over forty per cent of the men were reported as having, or as
having had, venereal disease.

                               ----------

_A Court to “Patch Up” Quarrels._—The domestic relations court of
Buffalo supervised through its probation officer in 1910 the
distribution of $40,587 in non-support cases. This was the first court
of this nature to be established. Recently New York and Boston have
followed suit. Probation did not prove successful in every case, but the
percentage of success “warrants enthusiasm,” according to the probation
officer of the court. Three out of every four persons are reported
benefited by the court.

                               ----------

_A Prison Twine Plant in Wisconsin._—On January 13th a bill was
introduced into the Wisconsin senate providing for an appropriation of
$400,000 as a fund to be used in operating a binder twine plant at the
state prison at Waupun, $200,000 to be available May 1st, 1911, and the
remainder May 1st, 1912.

                               ----------

A bill will be introduced, it is reported, into the Ohio legislature
providing for the sterilization of criminals and insane.

                               ----------

_Points in Prison Reform._—The Chicago Record-Herald of January 17th,
says editorially: A Harvard professor advocates systematic
experimentation on prisoners in state institutions with the different
chemical poisons used in food preservatives. Such doings, he thinks,
would be mild and humane as compared with those which are constantly
being tried on the non-criminal public by the manufacturers of food
products.

The professor probably has in mind the experiments conducted by Dr.
Wiley on government employees at Washington. But submission to such
treatment was voluntary, and the work was under competent supervision.
That such favorable auspices could be guaranteed in an average prison is
open to doubt.

One finds a spirit more human than that of the Harvard professor in the
warden of the state prison at Walla Walla, Wash. The latter declares
that the striped suit and the lock step are undesirable relics of an
outlived past. He has put his charges into plain gray clothes, with no
distinguishing mark beyond the prison number, and has abolished the lock
step altogether. If those two antiquated features represented affronts
to the dignity of human nature, the compulsory consumption of poison
might reasonably be held to represent still another. Its introduction
might lay the base of a new error and abuse, which itself would have to
be abolished in turn.

                               ----------

_Life Prisoners Studied._—A thorough study of the subject of life
prisoners has been made by Warden Henry Town, of Waupun, Wis. It is
interesting to note the kindly feeling held generally by prison
officials toward the “lifer.” Experience proves that the average
character of life prisoners is higher than the short-term men, and fewer
return again to crime, when given their liberty. This fact has increased
the sentiment favorable to paroling life prisoners after they have
served a reasonable period. The great majority of officials have
expressed themselves as favorable to laws of this kind, and several
states have already adopted them with satisfactory results.

                               ----------

_A Jail Catechism._—The following recommendations, made by Commissioner
Frank Wade, of the New York Commission on Prisons, after an inspection
of the Orleans County jail, may have a general applicability to the
jails of the county:

“That more beds and mattresses be placed in the lockup; that tramps and
loafers, not under arrest, be not allowed to mingle with the prisoners
detained for trial; that a jail yard be provided at the county jail, and
that work be provided for time prisoners; that all the beds in the jail
be equipped with new mattresses; that the walls of the corridors and
cells be repainted and that the corridors and cells be kept clean; that
the bed clothing be regularly washed and kept clean, in which event
sheets and pillow cases should be washed; that a steel ceiling be placed
over the wooden joists in the kitchen; that there be light in every cell
and that there be a new lock on every floor which cannot be reached or
tampered with by the prisoners.”

                               ----------

_A Court On Prison Architecture._—In the course of a decision denying an
injunction brought to hold up the contract for a new state prison,
Justice Betts of the New York Supreme Court, recently uttered the
following dictum dealing with the psychological aspects of prison
architecture:

“It appears that a substantial change in plans was made, increasing the
cost of the new prison from $2,000,000 to $2,200,000. This was solely in
an attempt to beautify and adorn the exterior of the building. The
commission, with the sanction of the legislature, is to spend $200,000
in seeking the unattainable. A prison known to be such is hideous and
ugly. It can be viewed by two classes of people only, those who are
inmates and those who are out. The inmates are not proud of their
environments, however ornate, and no amount of embellishment can make it
attractive to outsiders.”

                               ----------

A state training school for boys under 18 has just been opened at
Monroe, Alabama. It has been in preparation for several years.

                               ----------

_Federal Prisoners Paroled Without Publicity._—In accordance with the
decision of the attorney general of the United States and the chairman
of the federal board, prisoners who have won their paroles from federal
prisons will hereafter be released without publicity. Thus they can go
back into society unburdened with the disadvantage of readvertised
notoriety. Commenting editorially on this change, the Cincinnati (Ohio)
_Enquirer_ says:

“This is in keeping with modern progress in the treatment of criminals.
When a man is tried and sentenced for a crime, full publicity is given
to that fact, and when he arrives at the penitentiary that fact also is
announced to the public. After that man has served the term to which he
was sentenced, or when he has served a part of it and is released on
parole, he has paid his obligation to society for his violation of law.
He has a right to demand that he be permitted to re-enter the world
unhandicapped by the renewed publication of the disgrace of his
imprisonment. * * * * The attention of the Ohio prison managers is
called to this progressive action on the part of the federal government.
Its helpfulness would be just as important in state as in national
criminal affairs.”

                               ----------

_Organized Labor Opposes_ “THIRD DEGREE.”—A dispatch from New Haven,
Conn., states that organized labor in the various states is called upon
to exert its influence for legislation forbidding the police “third
degree” to get confessions from prisoners in a letter sent out from the
National Headquarters of the American Federation of Labor at Washington.

The letter, which is signed by Samuel Gompers, describes the practice as
having no warrant for its existence “except the brute power of barbarism
and the tradition derived therefrom,” and declares that “its practice on
the part of the police is usurpation that must be stopped.”

                               ----------

Former Lieutenant-Governor E. H. Harper has been elected president of
the Colorado Prison Association, which plans to draft a number of bills
for the legislative session.

                               ----------

_Penal Farm for Indiana._—A bill providing for the establishment of a
state penal farm will be introduced into the Indiana legislature.

The bill provides that the location of the farm and the purchase of the
land for it shall be made by the board of trustees of the state prison,
with the approval of the governor. The location shall be determined by
the advantages offered in providing work for the inmates. The labor for
erecting the buildings shall be furnished by prisoners transferred from
the state prison and reformatory. The farm shall be in charge of a board
of four trustees appointed by the governor.

All male delinquents, who are above the age of commitments to the
Indiana Boys’ School, who have been convicted of the violation of any
state law or city ordinance, the punishment for which now consists of
confinement in a county jail or workhouse, may be sent to the farm.
Where the imprisonment shall not be more than thirty days it is left to
the discretion of the trial court as to whether the prisoner shall be
sent to the county jail or to the penal farm.

Upon the recommendation of the boards of trustees of the Indiana state
prison and the state reformatory the governor may order transferred from
these institutions to the farms such prisoners as in the opinion of the
board would be benefited thereby. The prisoners at the proposed
institutions shall be employed at work in or about the building and
farm. For the purpose of equipping the farm appropriations shall be made
by the legislature. It is estimated the appropriation will require $200
a year for each prisoner.

                               ----------

_A Women’s Prison for Ohio?_—Members of the Ohio joint legislative
committee appointed to recommend what the state should do about building
a women’s prison, have decided to recommend that a joint reformatory and
prison for women be built under a management separate from the
penitentiary. The board of managers of the penitentiary will be asked to
abandon the project of erecting the woman’s prison near the institution
for men.

                               ----------

_Probation in Connecticut._—The Connecticut Prison Association shows
that the number of cases placed on probation during the year ended
September 30, 1910, was as follows: Men, 1,613; women, 126; boys, 809;
girls, 49. Those who observed their terms of probation and were released
were: Men, 1,077; women, 117; boys, 677; girls, 43. Those who violated
the conditions and were rearrested were: Men, 214; women, 12; boys, 52;
girls, 7; while 92 men, 7 women, 17 boys and 4 girls escaped from the
jurisdiction of the court. There were remaining on probation at the
close of the fiscal year 858 men, 59 women, 325 boys and 26 girls, while
the cases of 326 men, 18 women, 90 boys and 50 girls were investigated
and settled out of court.

The amount of probationers’ wages collected and expended for their
families was $26,919.75. The amount of fines and costs collected from
them amounted to $10,791.44.

                               ----------

President Thorpe of the Massachusetts Prison Association, in support of
his recommendation of state control of all penal institutions, which he
suggested had been smiled upon taxation, and a governor or two, said
that criminals violate the welfare of the state, not of the county, and
that about the only opposition to his project comes from county
commissioners. He called it wasteful for counties to build new prisons,
where they house both serious and petty criminals, and suggested that
the state should erect one in the country for classified lighter
offenders.

Following the wide publication of an article from the pen of Sir Evelyn
Ruggles-Brise, K. C. B., dealing with prison conditions in this country,
a statement condemning American prisons and prison systems was
attributed to him. In a recent letter to Amos W. Butler, Secretary of
the Indiana State Board of Charities, Mr. Ruggles-Brise, who attended
the International Prison Congress at Washington, and who is chairman of
the prison commission of England, stated that his criticism referred
only to the jail system in this country.

                               ----------

_Three Reforms Urged in Maine._—Several reforms are being strenuously
urged upon the Maine legislature by the prison association of that
state. A farm for inebriates in Cumberland county, a reformatory for
women, and a system of juvenile courts are those propositions attracting
the most attention from the press and the public. Civic clubs, men’s
clubs and church organizations are being drawn into the effort to get
the necessary bills passed by the legislature. The proposed farm for
inebriates will provide physical and mental training for the inmates,
and the bill authorizing it fixes minimum and maximum sentences of three
months and one year respectively. The bill providing for a women’s
reformatory asks for an appropriation of $30,000 for an institution on
the cottage plan, to which commitment will be on the indeterminate
sentence plan. The proposed juvenile court bill was spoken of as follows
by Judge Ben B. Lindsey, of Denver, Colorado:

“This bill is the best measure yet proposed to protect and correct
helpless, neglected or offending children.”

                               ----------

In connection with what promises to be a state-wide investigation of
several departments in New York which come under the control of the
governor, it is interesting to note that Governor Dix declares his
intention to make a personal inspection of the prisons, and a thorough
study of their affairs. Cornelius V. Collins, Superintendent of Prisons,
has stated publicly that he will welcome any investigation of affairs in
the Prison Department.

                               ----------

A bill to abolish the different prison boards and establish a new board
to control all state prisons and perform the functions of the present
advisory board in the matter of pardons, is in preparation by Rep.
Robert Y. Ogg, of Detroit, Michigan. Both parties declared for such a
bill in their state platforms.

                               ----------

A stop has been put in South Boston, Mass., to the practice of sending
juvenile offenders from the detention station to the courthouse in the
same vans with adult prisoners.

                               ----------

A bill to compel the sending of prisoners under 18 years of age to the
state reformatory, and to permit the sending of first offenders, except
those guilty of serious crimes, to the same place, and to prevent the
sending of prisoners over 30 years of age to the reformatory, is being
urged upon the legislature in Colorado. It is argued that some of the
judges think the reformatory merely a branch of the penitentiary.

                               ----------

On the ground that imprisonment in the city jail for petty crimes brings
punishment on the family of the culprit no less than on the culprit
himself, Mayor Pratt, of Spokane, Wash., is urging the establishment of
a work farm where petty criminals can be given employment that will
contribute to the support of their families. Mayor Pratt is also said to
favor an institution where the destitute can find employment.

                               ----------

A bill for the establishment of a reformatory for first offenders, now
before the legislature of California, is said to have the backing of
many organizations interested in prison reform. The bill provides for an
institution to which prisoners convicted of felony for the first time
may be sent for confinement, instruction and discipline, with the object
of fitting them for self-support on release. The sentence of such
prisoners is to be indeterminate.

                               ----------

A plan for sharing profits with the prisoners of the Rhode Island state
prison at Howard, R. I., has been proposed by Warden James F. McCusker,
and is now in the hands of a committee charged with reporting upon it.
It provides that in each department of the prison those who have worked
steadily for the preceding six months shall share in a monthly
distribution of the earnings of that department over and above a stated
minimum amount.

                               ----------

It is expected that legislature of Tennessee will make an appropriation
at this session for a reformatory where boys convicted of crime may be
kept separate from hardened criminals. The state has already purchased a
farm five miles from Nashville on which to erect such an institution.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                 A DIGEST OF EVENTS IN THE PRISON FIELD

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 =To  all who are Interested  Prisoners’ Aid Work and the Prison Field:=

    Last October, at the meeting of the American Prison Association,
        representatives of a number of the leading prisoners’ aid
        societies of the United States voted to organize a National
        Prisoners’ Aid Association, to promote closer co-operation
        between the prisoners’ aid societies of this country.

    These societies have decided to publish a monthly “Review” of events
        in the prison field. The first number of the REVIEW appeared
        about the middle of January. It contained an article by Warren
        F. Spaulding (Massachusetts) on the International Prison
        Congress, brief histories of three prisoners’ aid societies, a
        list of prisoners’ aid societies, several pages of “Events in
        Brief” containing up-to-date facts in the prison field from all
        parts of the country, and an advertisement.

    The REVIEW will be published once a month, in New York. It is an
        experiment. Everybody working for it, writers and editors, are
        giving their services gratuitously.

    The REVIEW is an experiment, not a money-maker. The important
        question is—can it pay for itself? Yes, if five hundred persons,
        interested in the prison world, will subscribe for the REVIEW at
        seventy-five cents, or become members of the National Prisoners’
        Aid Association, at one dollar, which will include the REVIEW.

    Therefore, SUBSCRIBE NOW. This REVIEW is specially for prisoners’
        aid workers, prison officials, boards of managers, state boards,
        probation officers, parole officers, members of the American
        Prison Association and of the National Conference of Charities
        and Correction, and all others interested in the treatment of
        the delinquent.

    The officers of the Association are: E. F. Waite, President; F.
        Emory Lyon, Vice President; O. F. Lewis, Secretary. Executive
        Committee: E. A. Fredenhagen, Charles Parsons, G. E. Cornwall,
        A. H. Votaw, Albert Steelman, and the officers ex-officio.




  Mr. O. F. Lewis, Sec’y,       Date.............................

                   National Prisoners’ Aid Association,

                                         135 East 15th Street, New York.

      Please enter my subscription to the work of the National
  Prisoners’ Aid Association as follows:

  .............Subscription. . . .to “The Review,” at 75c each.

  .............Membership, at $............. (including Review.)

  (Active, $1.; Associate, $5.; Sustaining, $25.; Life, $100.)

  Name .............................................

  Street and No. ...................................

  City ......................State ..................

------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Review, Vol. I, No. 2 (1911), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE REVIEW, VOL. I, NO. 2 (1911) ***

***** This file should be named 56099-0.txt or 56099-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/0/9/56099/

Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Barry Abrahamsen and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

